>> Jon Kuperman: Really quick kind of
a brief history I don't know if anybody is
an old-timey web developer like me but
back in the day when I started the only
tool that we had was view-source.
So we still have view-source and
it looks something this,
you click view-source and
you get all of your HTML.
There were kind of a lot of
problems with this which were,
you can't really do anything with it,
you can't really interact with it.
If you do any client-side code
that changes your markup,
it's not well represented there but
the big one is when you needed to debug.
I don't know if anybody remembers
advanced debugging like this, right?
So you didn't have console log,
because you didn't have a console,
because you didn't have DEV tools.
So the only thing that you had was in
your code, you could put an alert,
that was what you could do so you could
go alert, first name, alert, whatever.
But the problem was if it was any
non primitives it wasn't a number,
a string, or something like that
alert doesn't pretty print it
doesn't JSON string of fire or
anything like that.
So what you would get is these alert,
object window, or alert, object object, or
something like that and so you'd be like
drilling down into it, it was terrible.
And what was kind of a big issue then,
let me go to this next one,
is that we would see,
we would author HTML, right?
And this is still true to this day,
even if you're writing, using React,
using JSX or whatever it generates HTML.
HTML is what you send to the browser but
the browser doesn't give the user HTML,
right?
We've all heard of this concept of the DOM
before, right, the Document Object Model
and it's because the browser
takes the HTML as instructions.
But it actually uses this really
complex object model for how things
are positioned and how you interact
with them and everything like that.
So a big discrepancy here was that you
would just be able to see the view source
of your HTML but really there's so
much more going on.
And then so years and years ago,
the software developer created this
thing called The Live DOM Viewer.
And so if we go ahead and we take
a look at this, It's pretty minimal,
it's still online, which is really
awesome but basically what it is,
is what I'm talking about here, right?
So you would write some HTML, you would
write body, and then you would write H1,
Hello Frontend Masters H1, and
this is what you'd see in view-source,
but really the DOM creates all this stuff,
right.
These are body has a text node,
it's an H1 with another text node, and
it starts kind of giving us a better
understanding of what the browser
is actually rendering and
how things are working.
A good example of this is if you've ever
grabbed a DOM node, made with jQuery or
maybe just with Vanilla JavaScript and
you wanna change it's text or
you want to change a class,
or something like that.
You need to know the DOM APIs, because you
need to know how to grab a class name, or
how to grab inner text, or
inner HTML, all these things, right.
Those wouldn't be present in the
view-source but, when you start diving in
to the debugger and into the DOM,
you can see what's available,
what you could use.
>> Jon Kuperman: Cool, so
then out of this DOM Viewer came Firebug,
which was the very first of its kind,
this kind of mind blowing
revolution in web development.
And so we had, it was an add-on
originally for Firefox and
you could install this add-on and
you got all these great things.
And the kind of funny thing, the reason
that I include this picture of like it's
preview release is that really
almost nothing has changed to this.
Those look really similar to what
we're gonna be dealing with in
the Chrome Dev Tools.
The design's gotten a little cleaner but
you can see these little images of,
you can look at your scripts or you can
look at a console, an interactive repl,
you can look at the markup and
expand the DOM.
So this thing came out, it's totally
incredible, sadly I think a year,
maybe two years ago it was finally sunset.
What happened was I think it was
an add on and then Firefox removed
it in lieu of their own Dev Tools
which they've been working on and
It was still an add on and now I think
it's finally kind of lived its life.
But it was really a game changer and
it was really kind of what started
this concept of having these really great
debugging environment for web developers.
Cool, and yeah, so these slides
are available I sent the link out I think,
but let me just top forward really quick.
So if anybody doesn't have the slides,
you can go to,
it's a bit.ly link, so
bit.ly /devtools-slides.
I saw somebody asking about them and then
otherwise it's slides.com/jcoop/devtools,
that's where it'll redirect to, cool,
so you don't have to write down all
these links and things like that.
So the official documentation
lives at this link,
it is really high quality writing,
it is usually pretty slow to update as
the Dev team seems to move faster
than the technical writing team.
So oftentimes you'll go look
at an article on the docs and
the Dev tools don't
look like that anymore,
but the core information is the same,
so sometimes the docs are a little bit
difficult to use, which is why this course
exists, but they are really well written.
We're also gonna be doing a sample app,
which is here at bitl.y/devtools-app,
we'll get into that later,
I'll leave this link back up so
we all have time to install it,
get it going, I'll help out with that.
It requires Node.js being installed in
order to run the kinda server that serves
it, we're not gonna write any Node.js,
but it does require it being installed.
If for whatever reason you can't or
really don't wanna install it, we can do
most of the exercises on this site that
I made which is masteringdevtools.com.
But I'd way rather just install node and
pull this GitHub repo so
we can actually do everything together.
Again we'll cover that when
we get to the first exercise.